papers/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Papers
---

## Refereed Journal Publications

Czejdo, Bogdan D., Erik M. Ferragut, John R. Goodall, and Jason Laska. ["Network Intrusion Detection and Visualization Using Aggregations in a Cyber Security Data Warehouse".](http://dx.doi.org/10.4236/ijcns.2012.529069) International Journal of Communications, Network and System Sciences 5(29), Scientific Research Publishing Inc., 2012, 593–602.

Goodall, John R. ["An Evaluation of Visual and Textual Network Analysis Tools."](http://ivi.sagepub.com/content/10/2/145.abstract) Information Visualization 10(2), SAGE Publications, 2011, 145-157.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["Developing Expertise for Network Intrusion Detection."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/09593840910962186) Information Technology & People 22(2), Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2009, 92-108. 

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["Supporting Intrusion Detection Work Practice."](http://www.jissec.org/Contents/V5/N2/V5N2-Goodall.html) Journal of Information System Security 5(2), The Information Institute, 2009, 43-74.

D'Amico, Anita D., John R. Goodall, Daniel R. Tesone, and Jason K. Kopylec. ["Visual Discovery in Computer Network Defense."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MCG.2007.137) IEEE Computer Graphics & Applications 27(5), IEEE Press, 2007, 20-27.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, Penny Rheingans, and Anita Komlodi. ["Focusing on Context in Network Traffic Analysis."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MCG.2006.31) IEEE Computer Graphics & Applications 26(2), IEEE Press, 2006, 72-80.


## Refereed Conference Publications #

Goodall, John R., Hassan Radwan and Lenny Halseth. ["Visual Analysis of Code Security."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?399139) Proceedings of the Symposium on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), ACM International Conference Proceedings Series, 2010, 46-51.

D'Amico, Anita, Laurin Buchanan, John Goodall and Paul Walczak. "Mission Impact of Cyber Events: Scenarios and Ontology to Express the Relationships Between Cyber Assets, Missions and Users." [Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Information Warfare and Security (ICIW)](http://academic-conferences.org/iciw/iciw2011/iciw10-proceedings.htm), Thomson Reuters ISI, 2010, 388-397.

Goodall, John R., Anita D. D'Amico and Jason K. Kopylec. ["Camus: Automatically Mapping Cyber Assets to Missions and Users."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MILCOM.2009.5380096) Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), IEEE Press, 2009.

Goodall, John R. ["Visualization is Better! A Comparative Evaluation."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VIZSEC.2009.5375543) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), IEEE Press, 2009, 57-68.

Goodall, John R. and Mark Sowul. ["VIAssist: Visual Analytics for Cyber Defense."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/THS.2009.5168026) Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Technologies for Homeland Security (HST), IEEE Press, 2009, 143-150.

Goodall, John R. and Daniel T. Tesone. ["Visual Analytics for Network Flow Analysis."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CATCH.2009.47) Proceedings of the Cybersecurity Applications & Technology Conference For Homeland Security (CATCH), IEEE Press, 2009, 199-204.

Prole, Kenneth, John R. Goodall, Anita D. D'Amico, and Jason K. Kopylec. ["Wireless Cyber Assets Discovery Visualization."](http://www.springerlink.com/content/y9155505n3318682/) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), Springer LNCS, 2008, 136-143.

Tesone, Daniel T. and John R. Goodall. ["Balancing Interactive Data Management of Massive Data with Situational Awareness through Smart Aggregation."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VAST.2007.4388998) Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST), IEEE Press, 2007, 67-74.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, Penny Rheingans, and Anita Komlodi. ["Preserving the Big Picture: Visual Network Traffic Analysis with TNV."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VIZSEC.2005.1532065) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), IEEE Press, 2005, 47-54.

Komlodi, Anita, Penny Rheingans, Utkarsha Ayachit, John R. Goodall, and Amit Joshi. ["A User-Centered Look at Glyph-Based Security Visualization."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VIZSEC.2005.1532062) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), IEEE Press, 2005, 21-28.

Goodall, John R. ["User Requirements and Design of a Visualization for Intrusion Detection Analysis."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IAW.2005.1495979) Proceedings of the IEEE SMC Information Assurance Workshop (IAW), IEEE Press, 2005, 394-401.

Goodall, John R., A. Ant Ozok, Wayne G. Lutters, Penny Rheingans, and Anita Komlodi. ["A User-Centered Approach to Visualizing Network Traffic for Intrusion Detection."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?850553) Extended Abstracts of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), ACM Press, 2005, 1403-1406.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["I Know My Network: Collaboration and Expertise in Intrusion Detection."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?746205) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), ACM Press, 2004, 342-345.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["The Work of Intrusion Detection: Rethinking the Role of Security Analysts."](http://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2004/179/) Proceedings of the Americas Conference on Information Systems (AMCIS), AIS Press, 2004, 1421-1427.

Komlodi, Anita, John R. Goodall, and Wayne G. Lutters. ["An Information Visualization Framework for Intrusion Detection."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?869009) Extended Abstracts of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), ACM Press, 2004, 1743-1746. 


## Books

Goodall, John R., Gregory Conti, and Kwan-Liu Ma (eds.). [Visualization for Computer Security: 5th International Workshop, VizSec 2008.](http://www.springer.com/computer/image+processing/book/978-3-540-85931-4) Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science Series, Berlin, 2008.

Goodall, John R., Gregory Conti, and Kwan-Liu Ma (eds.). [VizSec 2007: Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security.](http://www.springer.com/computer/image+processing/book/978-3-540-78242-1) Springer, Berlin, 2008.


## Book Chapters

Goodall, John R. ["Introduction to Visualization for Computer Security."](http://www.springerlink.com/content/r361j11781l58411) In John R. Goodall, Gregory Conti, and Kwan-Liu Ma (eds.), VizSec 2007: Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security. Springer, Berlin, 2008, 1-17.

Kopylec, Jason K., Anita D. D'Amico, and John R. Goodall. ["Visualizing Cascading Failures in Critical Cyber Infrastructure."](http://www.springerlink.com/content/u1685022806012m5) In Eric Goetz and Sujeet Shenoi (eds.), Critical Infrastructure Protection. Springer, Boston, MA, 2007, 351-366.


## Panels, Workshops and  Presentations

Steed, Chad, Thomas Potak, Robert Patton, John R. Goodall, Christopher Maness, and James Senter. "Interactive Visual Analysis of High Throughput Text Streams," Poster & Presentation. 2nd IEEE Workshop on Interactive Visual Text Analytics, Seattle, WA, October 15, 2012.

Goodall, John R. "Visualization for Text Analysis," Keynote. Text Mining 2011, Mesa AZ, April 30, 2011.

Goodall, John R. "Visualization for Cyber Security," Panel: Visual analytics for the security sector. Visual Analytics Community Consortium Meeting, College Park MD, August 31-September 1, 2010.

Goodall, John R. "VIAssist: Visual Analytics for Cyber Defense," Panel: DHS Science & Technology Emerging Technologies. GFIRST National Conference, Atlanta GA, August 23-28, 2009. 

Goodall, John R. "Information Visualization," Panel: Visualization for Cyber Security. USSS Global Cyber Security Conference, Washington DC, August 4-6, 2009. 

Goodall, John R. and Jason K. Kopylec. "VIAssist: Visual Analytics for NetFlow Data," FloCon, Scottsdale AZ, January 12-15, 2009.

Goodall, John R. ["Visualizing Network Traffic for Intrusion Detection,"](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?816276) Doctoral Symposium, Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS), ACM Press, 2006, 363-364.

Goodall, John R., Anita Komlodi, and Wayne G. Lutters. "Information Visualization for Intrusion Detection Analysis: A Needs Assessment of Systems and Network Security Experts." Workshop on Statistical and Machine Learning Techniques in Computer Intrusion Detection, Fairfax VA, September 24-26, 2003.


# Dissertation #

Goodall, John R. ["Defending the Network: Visualizing Network Packets for Intrusion Detection Analysis,"](http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?Ver=1&amp;Exp=09-30-2012&amp;FMT=7&amp;DID=1338926531&amp;RQT=309) Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC), 2006.

Commit message:

added vast challenge and nv paper

papers/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Papers
---

## Refereed Journal Publications

Czejdo, Bogdan D., Erik M. Ferragut, John R. Goodall, and Jason Laska. ["Network Intrusion Detection and Visualization Using Aggregations in a Cyber Security Data Warehouse".](http://dx.doi.org/10.4236/ijcns.2012.529069) International Journal of Communications, Network and System Sciences 5(29), Scientific Research Publishing Inc., 2012, 593–602.

Goodall, John R. ["An Evaluation of Visual and Textual Network Analysis Tools."](http://ivi.sagepub.com/content/10/2/145.abstract) Information Visualization 10(2), SAGE Publications, 2011, 145-157.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["Developing Expertise for Network Intrusion Detection."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/09593840910962186) Information Technology & People 22(2), Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2009, 92-108. 

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["Supporting Intrusion Detection Work Practice."](http://www.jissec.org/Contents/V5/N2/V5N2-Goodall.html) Journal of Information System Security 5(2), The Information Institute, 2009, 43-74.

D'Amico, Anita D., John R. Goodall, Daniel R. Tesone, and Jason K. Kopylec. ["Visual Discovery in Computer Network Defense."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MCG.2007.137) IEEE Computer Graphics & Applications 27(5), IEEE Press, 2007, 20-27.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, Penny Rheingans, and Anita Komlodi. ["Focusing on Context in Network Traffic Analysis."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MCG.2006.31) IEEE Computer Graphics & Applications 26(2), IEEE Press, 2006, 72-80.


## Refereed Conference Publications

Harrison, Lane, Riley Spahn, Mike Iannacone, Evan Downing, and John R. Goodall. ["NV: Nessus vulnerability visualization for the web."](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2379690.2379694) Proceedings of the Symposium on Visualization for Cyber Security (VizSec). ACM International Conference Proceedings Series, 2012, 25-32. 

Goodall, John R., Hassan Radwan and Lenny Halseth. ["Visual Analysis of Code Security."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?399139) Proceedings of the Symposium on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), ACM International Conference Proceedings Series, 2010, 46-51.

D'Amico, Anita, Laurin Buchanan, John Goodall and Paul Walczak. "Mission Impact of Cyber Events: Scenarios and Ontology to Express the Relationships Between Cyber Assets, Missions and Users." [Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Information Warfare and Security (ICIW)](http://academic-conferences.org/iciw/iciw2011/iciw10-proceedings.htm), Thomson Reuters ISI, 2010, 388-397.

Goodall, John R., Anita D. D'Amico and Jason K. Kopylec. ["Camus: Automatically Mapping Cyber Assets to Missions and Users."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MILCOM.2009.5380096) Proceedings of the Military Communications Conference (MILCOM), IEEE Press, 2009.

Goodall, John R. ["Visualization is Better! A Comparative Evaluation."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VIZSEC.2009.5375543) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), IEEE Press, 2009, 57-68.

Goodall, John R. and Mark Sowul. ["VIAssist: Visual Analytics for Cyber Defense."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/THS.2009.5168026) Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Technologies for Homeland Security (HST), IEEE Press, 2009, 143-150.

Goodall, John R. and Daniel T. Tesone. ["Visual Analytics for Network Flow Analysis."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CATCH.2009.47) Proceedings of the Cybersecurity Applications & Technology Conference For Homeland Security (CATCH), IEEE Press, 2009, 199-204.

Prole, Kenneth, John R. Goodall, Anita D. D'Amico, and Jason K. Kopylec. ["Wireless Cyber Assets Discovery Visualization."](http://www.springerlink.com/content/y9155505n3318682/) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), Springer LNCS, 2008, 136-143.

Tesone, Daniel T. and John R. Goodall. ["Balancing Interactive Data Management of Massive Data with Situational Awareness through Smart Aggregation."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VAST.2007.4388998) Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST), IEEE Press, 2007, 67-74.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, Penny Rheingans, and Anita Komlodi. ["Preserving the Big Picture: Visual Network Traffic Analysis with TNV."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VIZSEC.2005.1532065) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), IEEE Press, 2005, 47-54.

Komlodi, Anita, Penny Rheingans, Utkarsha Ayachit, John R. Goodall, and Amit Joshi. ["A User-Centered Look at Glyph-Based Security Visualization."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VIZSEC.2005.1532062) Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security (VizSec), IEEE Press, 2005, 21-28.

Goodall, John R. ["User Requirements and Design of a Visualization for Intrusion Detection Analysis."](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IAW.2005.1495979) Proceedings of the IEEE SMC Information Assurance Workshop (IAW), IEEE Press, 2005, 394-401.

Goodall, John R., A. Ant Ozok, Wayne G. Lutters, Penny Rheingans, and Anita Komlodi. ["A User-Centered Approach to Visualizing Network Traffic for Intrusion Detection."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?850553) Extended Abstracts of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), ACM Press, 2005, 1403-1406.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["I Know My Network: Collaboration and Expertise in Intrusion Detection."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?746205) Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW), ACM Press, 2004, 342-345.

Goodall, John R., Wayne G. Lutters, and Anita Komlodi. ["The Work of Intrusion Detection: Rethinking the Role of Security Analysts."](http://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2004/179/) Proceedings of the Americas Conference on Information Systems (AMCIS), AIS Press, 2004, 1421-1427.

Komlodi, Anita, John R. Goodall, and Wayne G. Lutters. ["An Information Visualization Framework for Intrusion Detection."](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?869009) Extended Abstracts of the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI), ACM Press, 2004, 1743-1746. 


## Books

Goodall, John R., Gregory Conti, and Kwan-Liu Ma (eds.). [Visualization for Computer Security: 5th International Workshop, VizSec 2008.](http://www.springer.com/computer/image+processing/book/978-3-540-85931-4) Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science Series, Berlin, 2008.

Goodall, John R., Gregory Conti, and Kwan-Liu Ma (eds.). [VizSec 2007: Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security.](http://www.springer.com/computer/image+processing/book/978-3-540-78242-1) Springer, Berlin, 2008.


## Book Chapters

Goodall, John R. ["Introduction to Visualization for Computer Security."](http://www.springerlink.com/content/r361j11781l58411) In John R. Goodall, Gregory Conti, and Kwan-Liu Ma (eds.), VizSec 2007: Proceedings of the Workshop on Visualization for Computer Security. Springer, Berlin, 2008, 1-17.

Kopylec, Jason K., Anita D. D'Amico, and John R. Goodall. ["Visualizing Cascading Failures in Critical Cyber Infrastructure."](http://www.springerlink.com/content/u1685022806012m5) In Eric Goetz and Sujeet Shenoi (eds.), Critical Infrastructure Protection. Springer, Boston, MA, 2007, 351-366.


## Panels, Workshops and  Presentations

Harrison, Lane, Jason Laska, Riley Spahn, Mike Iannacone, Evan Downing, Erik M. Ferragut, and John R. Goodall. "situ: Situational Understanding and Discovery for Cyber Attacks." VAST Challenge entry.  IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST), Seattle, WA, October 2012.

Steed, Chad, Thomas Potak, Robert Patton, John R. Goodall, Christopher Maness, and James Senter. "Interactive Visual Analysis of High Throughput Text Streams," Poster & Presentation. 2nd IEEE Workshop on Interactive Visual Text Analytics, Seattle, WA, October 15, 2012.

Goodall, John R. "Visualization for Text Analysis," Keynote. Text Mining 2011, Mesa AZ, April 30, 2011.

Goodall, John R. "Visualization for Cyber Security," Panel: Visual analytics for the security sector. Visual Analytics Community Consortium Meeting, College Park MD, August 31-September 1, 2010.

Goodall, John R. "VIAssist: Visual Analytics for Cyber Defense," Panel: DHS Science & Technology Emerging Technologies. GFIRST National Conference, Atlanta GA, August 23-28, 2009. 

Goodall, John R. "Information Visualization," Panel: Visualization for Cyber Security. USSS Global Cyber Security Conference, Washington DC, August 4-6, 2009. 

Goodall, John R. and Jason K. Kopylec. "VIAssist: Visual Analytics for NetFlow Data," FloCon, Scottsdale AZ, January 12-15, 2009.

Goodall, John R. ["Visualizing Network Traffic for Intrusion Detection,"](http://dl.acm.org/authorize?816276) Doctoral Symposium, Proceedings of the ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS), ACM Press, 2006, 363-364.

Goodall, John R., Anita Komlodi, and Wayne G. Lutters. "Information Visualization for Intrusion Detection Analysis: A Needs Assessment of Systems and Network Security Experts." Workshop on Statistical and Machine Learning Techniques in Computer Intrusion Detection, Fairfax VA, September 24-26, 2003.


# Dissertation #

Goodall, John R. ["Defending the Network: Visualizing Network Packets for Intrusion Detection Analysis,"](http://proquest.umi.com/pqdlink?Ver=1&amp;Exp=09-30-2012&amp;FMT=7&amp;DID=1338926531&amp;RQT=309) Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Maryland, Baltimore County (UMBC), 2006.
